# CountSumRows statistics

In the output generated by ad-hoc or snapshot-diff mode, a third group that optionally can be shown are the 'countsumrows' statistics. These statistics are taken from the YSQL (normally port 13000) http endpoint. If no SQL interaction did happen between YSQL/postgres and DocDB, there will be no statistics shown.

This is how countsumrows statistic output looks like:
```
192.168.66.80:13000  handler_latency_yb_ysqlserver_SQLProcessor_InsertStmt                                1 avg:          18.552 tot:          18.552 ms, avg:               1 tot:               1 rows
192.168.66.80:13000  handler_latency_yb_ysqlserver_SQLProcessor_SingleShardTransactions                   1 avg:          18.552 tot:          18.552 ms, avg:               1 tot:               1 rows
192.168.66.80:13000  handler_latency_yb_ysqlserver_SQLProcessor_Single_Shard_Transactions                 1 avg:          18.552 tot:          18.552 ms, avg:               1 tot:               1 rows
192.168.66.80:13000  handler_latency_yb_ysqlserver_SQLProcessor_Transactions                              1 avg:          18.552 tot:          18.552 ms, avg:               1 tot:               1 rows
```
- The first column contains the ip address or hostname a colon and the port number.
- The second column contains the statistic name. Currently these always start with 'handler_latency_yb_ysqlserver_SQLProcessor'.
- The third column contains the number of times the event for the statistic name was triggered ('count'), which is calculated by taking the difference of the 'count' value between the END and BEGIN snapshots.
- The fourth column (skipping counting 'avg:') contains the average time the event with the statistic name was taking, which is calculated by taking the difference of the 'sum' value between the END and BEGIN snapshots, and dividing it by the time in seconds between the BEGIN and END snapshots. This time is in milliseconds.
- The fifth column (skipping counting 'tot:'), contains the total time in the event with the statistic name, which is calculated by taking the difference of the 'sum' value between the END and the BEGIN snapshots. This time is in milliseconds.
- The sixth column (skipping counting 'ms, avg:'), contains the average number of rows involved. This number is calculated by thaking the difference of the 'rows' value between the END and BEGIN snapshots, and dividing it by value of the third column (count). The number of rows is known to be different from actual number of rows.
- The seventh column (skipping counting 'tot:'), contains the total number of rows involved, which is calculated by taking the difference of the 'rows' value between the END and BEGIN snapshots. The number of rows is known to be different from actual number of rows.
